---
title: This is my first blog post!
published_at: 2022-11-04T15:00:00.000Z
snippet: This is an excerpt of my first blog post.
---

# Arranging Acappella Music

> Published on May 10, 2016

Probably at some point, someone in the acappella community will tell you that
the performance matters more than the arrangement. I’m here to tell you **THAT’S
BULLSHIT**. Great performance can hide a subpar arrangement, and the inverse of
that holds much truth as well. However, great arrangements can make your group
perform better and with more confidence, as well as sound cool in their own
right. Arranging is an incredibly important and essential part of singing
acappella.

This document is for those who have recently begun to try their hand at
arranging acappella music. This post is **NOT** going into music theory or
notation, but rather, it goes through the mindset that I have while arranging,
critiquing, and editing acappella music. It should be very useful to anyone who
puts acappella music to paper, whether it be an arranger looking at their own
work, or a music director overviewing someone else's. I usually approach this in
three different steps:

1. Is the arrangement singable?
2. Is the arrangement exciting?
3. Does the arrangement &%(@#*$ SING?

I would focus on approaching these one at a time, in that order. As you follow
through this post, keep in mind that art has no real rules; You will undoubtedly
find exceptions to everything I lay out in this article. Think of these as
guidelines to bring all of your arrangements to a good baseline. You should
break the rules when you understand why you should break them.

## The Singable Arrangement

Always make the arrangement as simple as you can without compromising sound. You
won’t be able to create effective and effective arrangements until your group
can efficiently learn and perform the music you give them. This is the most
important skill for a beginning arranger to master. If you make your arrangement
simple and have all the necessary parts of each chord, your group will be able
to make it sound good. I have a few guidelines I follow to keep my arrangements
simple:

### 1. Avoid Incoherent Phrases

These often take the form of unnecessary larger interval leaps, or having people
sing unrelated melodies within a short timespan. Unnecessary interval leaps are
usually are caused by poor planning; for instance, if you have a soprano sing
the bottom note in a voicing when you know that they need to sing the highest
note in the next chord. Unrelated melodies in a single part tend to either be an
arranger trying to bandaid a boring arrangment or simply trying to address too
many ideas at the same time.

In general, just make phrases that you can sing and memorize within your first
few try. Try recording your arrangements as you write them. If you can’t sing
them easily, then make sure you don't have any simpler alternate voicings.

### 2. Use your Words

Words create interest. Use them in the background to avoid boring backing
tracks, or use them to stand out in an arrangement of oos and ahs. Furthermore,
words can make an arrangement MUCH more fun to sing. The best case scenario is
if people in your group find themselves singing their parts because they sound
cool by themselves. It's very hard to get to that point without words.

### 3. Vowels and Consonants with Purpose

My biggest pet-peeve in contemporary acappella is that consonants and vowels are
thrown around without any real purpose. Do you find yourself singing jen jen’s
in the shower? Because I doubt it. "Doo bee doo bee" do has its place in some
songs, but chances are, an "oo", "ah", or words will do better. Have a real
reason for any sound you use.

### 4. Arrange with Breaths

Avoid phrases that are longer than someone can sing without breathing. Sometimes
it’s necessary for effect, and this is but you shouldn’t be dependent on people
taking “sneaky” breaths; singers perform worse when they are low on air or have
to take weirdly-timed breaths. This rule is less relevant for recording-only
arrangements.

### 5. Know the Range of your singers

You can make singers sing out of their tessitura (ideally for not for long) but
keep in mind this also changes the tonality of the note. Also remember that for
quiet parts, throwing the guys up into head voice or falsetto can work really
well for really cool cluster chords. For contemporary acappella, ranges
basically break down to this:

**Soprano (C4-G5)**: Sopranos generally like to stay around the middle of the
treble clef. In order to keep sopranos from overwhelming the sound, it’s a good
idea to keep them on the lower half of the staff.

**Alto (G3-B4)**: Altos have a lot of versatility being the lower end of their
staff. Tenor and alto parts usually can be interchanged without too much
difficulty.

**Tenor (C3-A4)**: Tenors are like sopranos that are an octave lower. Not much
is too different.

**Bass (E2-D4)**: You usually wanna keep them above one ledger line below the
bass clef. Most basses are able to hit the D below that, but not always easily.

**Mezzosoprano and Baritone**: These parts basically cover any ground in between
the other four parts. they thrive in the lower halves of the part above them,
and the upper half of the part below them.

## Make Your Arrangement Exciting

After you make your arrangements singable, this is the next step. Give your
singers a way to excite people. If it’s a slow song, you need it grip at the
heartstrings. If it’s an up-tempo and exciting song, the arrangement should make
the audience **AND** for the group want to dance.

### 1. Play with expectations

One of the only two reasons to do top 40 hits. You can’t play with people’s
expectations of a song that they haven't heard. The two cliche attempts at this
are mashing up a couple 4-chord songs with the same progression, and/or turning
any song into a ballad. So maybe I don't recommend doing that without another
twist. But attempting to arrange something that people will not hear anywhere
except an acappella concert is a good start.

### 2. Arrange for soloists

Take advantage of any exceptional soloists. Ask them what songs they like to
sing. Have a projected soloist help you arrange, or bounce ideas off them. The
more a soloist feels comfortable with a song, the more their personality and
style for that song can show up on stage. If a group you're arranging for wants
to audition the song with multiple soloists, make them beat someone who
**KNOWS** can kill it. If you cater to an awesome soloist, there's really not a
way to make an arrangement go too poorly.

### 3. Arrange for ALL your soloists

Not just your singers. This includes vocal percussion, rapper, any weird-ass
sounds your members can make with their voices, or even any personalities that
can shine through in a song. Anything that works well with a particular song or
performance can and should be used.

## Make it &%(@#*$ SING

If you have singable and exciting arrangements... well then you've won. Maybe
focus on consistency. If you have that, too... well then we have a few
additional guidelines:

### 1. NO RULES! NO RULES!

But seriously, feel free to ignore anything I’ve told you thus-far or will tell
you in future rules if it works. If it sounds sweet and your group can sing it,
by all means do it!

### 2. LVD

LVD stands for Loudness, Volume, and Dynamics. You may be saying to yourself
“aren’t those the same thing?” to which I say, “YES, THAT’S HOW IMPORTANT IT
IS!!!!” Ok, I lie; there are some subtle differences in what these words mean.
However, I'm not here to grapple with smaller semantic differences. Encouraging
dynamic range is what separates a good arrangement from a great one. Have parts
in your arrangement that gradually get louder or softer, or all of a sudden
explode with loudness and all of a sudden implode dynamically. The dynamics of
the piece should reflect the moments in the song that have the most impact. It’s
up to you, the arranger, to decide whether a certain area of interest calls for
loud or quiet to have the largest impact, and to encourage the group to adjust.

How do you encourage this, you ask? Dynamic markings help, but the main
contributor is vowel choice. I cannot count the amount of times I've seen new
arrangers mark something as forte, but have all the parts singing "oo". The
group will have an incredibly difficult time making this work.

### 3. Part Density

Another way you can control dynamics is with part density. Part density is
simply how many parts you have singing at any given time. This is an essential
tool for creating very dynamic arrangements. The biggest thing to take away from
this is: **You don’t always need to have everyone singing at once**. For
example, if you need a part to sound powerful, but it's not the climax of your
song, having a subset of singers sing with power, then having the rest of the
group join in is a much stronger effect than having the whole group sing a
little quieter on the first phrase.

### 4. Revel in the 2nd Verse

There’s an old adage amongst arrangers:

> “The second verse is where arrangements go to die” -Abraham Lincoln, 1985

Acappella can get really boring really fast. Despite the voice being humanity's
most versatile non-electronic instrument, we still have smaller range of tonal
qualities available than other ensembles. So, to keep your audiences interested,
a good arrangement needs to be dynamic: the arrangement needs to introduce
change. Some acappella arrangers will even drop the second verse of a song or
replace it completely, because it’s a repetition of the same stuff you’ve
already heard, just with different words. If you include the 2nd verse of a
song, you better have a good reason, and be introducing something new to
progress the song. Otherwise, you might as well just drop it.

### 5. YOUR ARRANGEMENT IS A FINE DESSERT

There’s a reason the dessert portions at fancy restaurants are so infuriatingly
small. A powerful no-flour chocolate cake is luxurious and complex on the first
plate, but it just tastes like dry, bitter, brown stuff by the time you finish
your 2nd 5-lb cake.

The same idea goes for arranging. Unless something sounds SICK AS FUCK, **AND**
fits into the interest curve you’re building, then you probably shouldn’t add it
to the arrangement. Every section of the arrangement needs to improve the song,
making it feel cooler or deeper. Trim the fat. Better to leave your audience
wanting more than wishing the song was over already.

## FAIL FASTER

As much a life rule as it is an arranging rule, don’t be afraid to experiment
and screw up. Just do the thing! The faster you screw up, the faster you can
learn from those screw-ups, and the faster you can improve. This applies to
arrangements just as much as anything else in life, so don’t be afraid to jump
in and fail faster!

Now, pull up your favorite music writing program, keep what I’ve told you in
mind, and ARRANGE!
